We're going to walk through an example of joining two separate DataFrames.
The first thing I'm going to do is check the status
of Kafka and make sure that it's up and running.
I going to type PS dash EF.
When I type that actually the Kafka output started stomping over the top of my terminal.
I have a pretty good clue that Kafka is running,
but just to be sure I'm going to go to a different terminal.
I'm going to clear this to make it easier to read and I'm going to type PS dash EF.
I do see several Java processes which in this workspace tells me Kafka is running.
The other thing I notice is I have two processes that are running Spark,
which tells me that the master and the worker are both active.
That means I can start coding and be confident I'll be able to submit4 my application.
In this example, we're going to be bringing in two different messages.
The first message looks like this,
and the second message looks like this.
The first one is the vehicle status.
It gives the truck number,
it gives the destination the miles from the shop It's going to,
and the odometer reading.
The second one is the vehicle check-in
and that tells us if the vehicle has been checked in or not.
It includes a reservation ID,
a location name, and a truck number.
You can start thinking of how we could be joining
these two when we get a little further down.
Before we get to that point,
we need to create schemas for both of these payloads.
The first schema that I'm going to create will be called vehicle status schema.
It will be a StructType.
In order to create a StructType,
I need to pass an array of struct fields.
The struct fields are all instantiated with a string and a type.
The string needs to match the JSON string name,
the JSON field name.
In this case it's going to be truck number and the type has quotes around it,
which means it's a string.
I'm just going to keep going through all the JSON fields.
The next one is destination,
and it's a string as well.
The next one is miles from shop.
It doesn't have a string quotes around it and it looks like a number,
and because it's not a decimal,
I'm going to call it an integer.
I haven't imported integer,
so I'm going to make sure to do that here before I use it.
The next field is odometer reading,
and it looks like an integer as well.
I'm going to get rid of my extra lines here, Now,
I'm going to create a schema for
the next message type I'm going to call it vehicleCheckinSchema.
I'm going to follow the same process.
Why don't you look ahead and see if you can figure
out what the types are going to be for each of the fields.
The first struct field will be called reservation ID.
Have you figured out what type it should be at?
It has quotes, so that means it should be a string.
The next one will be called location name and what should that be, What type?
String type as well.
The next one is a truck number.
It could be tricky because it has the name number in it.
But we notice it has quote symbols around it.
We're going to make it a string type.
It turns out all of these fields are strings.
I was missing some parentheses here.
Now, I need to read some data from Kafka,
I have something to actually work with.
Let's create our spark session.
I'm going to name this the vehicle check-in application and I'm going to create it.
I'm going to set the log level.
Before I figured out I could set the log level,
it was really hard to find things.
Now, I'm going to read the vehicleStatus DataFrame.
That's the first one up here.
Let's give that a name, Raw,
because it's coming directly from Kafka.
We want the read string, not the write string because we're reading not writing.
We want the Kafka format.
We've got to set the bootstrap servers
and we're going to subscribe to the topic called vehicle status.
This is a predefined topic that has data going to it already.
You can't just make up a topic and have it have data that doesn't work.
We need to go to the one that we're looking for.
If we have a type on that topic name,
it probably won't get us any data.
We want the earliest data possible from the topic.
We're going to tell it the starting offset of earliest and we're going to get it loading.
I'm going to use the select DX PR to convert this from binary to string.
I'm going to name it something new and the key for this is the truck ID.
Just double checking.
It's called truck number.
Let's call it that and then what else do we need to cast the value?
Let's call that the vehicleStatusJson,
because that's what it has in it.
Now, let's use that nifty schema we created.
We're going to call the dot with column method and we're going to overwrite
the vehicle status Jsonfield using the from JSON method or from JSON function.
We're going to use the schema we created,
which is called vehicleStatus Schema.
We've done that and we've passed it into sub-fields,
and let's select those subfields.
We're going to select vehicleStatusOn.Star,
which will include everything,
and I need to tell it COL,
so it knows that's a column name.
Now, I want to create a view out of that.
We'll call the view vehicle status and now I'm
going to select from that vehicle status the fields that I'm interested in.
I'm going to call the DataFrame that I get out of the view,
vehicleStatuSelectStar DF, and that's because I'm basically selecting everything.
But I am going to alias some fields.
I'm going to call truck number,
status TruckNumber that so that when I do my join later,
that has a unique name and I'm selecting from the View vehicle status.
That data is ready to join.
Now, I've got all the fields I want,
and then I've got a unique joined fields that I can use in my joint statement.
Now, we need to read in my other topic.
I'm going to call it vehicleCheckIn RawStreamingDF.
I'm going to pass the bootstrap application,
which is local hosts with port 1992.
That could be multiple servers appear in a production environment.
The topic I'm looking for needs to be exact and it's called check dash in.
I want to get the earliest message possible and everything after that.
That's what I'm going to do to get that data.
We need to do the same conversion on this one from two string format.
The key for this is going to be a truck number as well.
Actually, I think it might be the reservation ID.
We'll call it that,
and then we're going to cast the value as a string and we're
going to call it vehicleCheckInJson.
Now, that we've got the JSON isolated in a field,
we're going to parse that JSON using the schema we created.
We're going to do it from, sorry,
the widthcolumn method,
widthcolumn will create a column
if it's not there and if it is, it's going to override it.
The value we want override is called vehicleCheckInJson.
Right now, it's just a field with a blob of Json.
It just looks like this.
The whole field has this,
all of this data in one field and then we want to make it so it's separated.
We're going to say replace that field with
separate fields and pull the data out of that location,
the field where the data is already.
We're going to use the schema we created, the vehicleCheckInSchema.
This will give us, instead of just a column with all of that data in one column as JSON,
it'll give it as separate subfields.
I want to select those subfields.
I'm going to say select column and I'm going to say
vehicleCheckInJson.Star because it now has a bunch of fields under it.
I'm going to create a view out of those called vehicleCheckIn.
I'm going to select from that view,
I'm going to call this vehicleCheckInSelectStarDF.
I'm going to use Spark SQL to select the fields I want.
I'm going to select for reservation ID,
location name, truck number,
but we're going to alias this as well as
checkintruckNumber and then status and we are getting them all from where?
vehicleCheckIn is the name of our view.
Now, we're going to join the two on the truck number column.
We're going to create a new DataFrame called checkIn StatusDataFrame,
and we're going to start on the left-hand side with
the vehicleStatusSelect StarDF and we're going to say dot join.
Now, we're going to say,
let's join the vehicleCheckIn SelectStarDataFrame.
The expression we want to join on.
We're going to do triple quotes around it,
and we're going to say statusTruckNumber equals checkinTruckNumber.
That final DataFrame has
all the fields and it joins it together from two different DataFrames.
Let's take a look at what that looks like when we stream it to the console.
We're going to say checkinStatus Dataframe.writestream.outputmode("append"),
and the format is console.
Tell it to start and then tell it to await termination.Now,
we're going to save that file.
Now, that we've resolved those various issues,
let's run this Spark application and look at the joint data that we get as a result.
We have a script already written in the home workspace spark directory.
I'm going to list folder and I have a submit vehiclecheckinscrimpt.
I'm going to run that script.
Now, we've got the application running and we're waiting for the output.
This can take longer with joints usually.
It's hard to be patient,
but it's good to wait until you start seeing batches coming
through and then you'll know what you're actually getting out of your application.
After all this work,
it's worth the wait, and here's batch zero.
The joined output that we're seeing has the status truck number column,
the destination, the miles from shop,
the odometer reading the reservation ID,
the location name, the check-in truck number, and the status.
We have this truck number that seeing a lot of mileage lately,
a lot of reservations for different destinations.
We're seeing this truck going to Louisiana, Arizona,
Colorado, Maryland, Tennessee and we're seeing the status then change on the next batch.
These reservations are coming in,
so they're getting checked in at different points.
We see it go in and out and then in again.
That's the result of the streaming joined that we did and I'm going to
kill this biasing Control C and that stopped it.